With the cleanup work done on the backend, there are two things I want to do on the frontend now,
well actually it's just one thing. When we add a new post, like this one or when we added a post like
here, I actually want to redirect the user back to the messages page once this is done. Well and then
as a bonus I guess there is one other thing I want to do,
I want to show a spinner whilst we are waiting for the posts, it's really fast but you see there is no
posts added yet
blinking up for a brief second and also if we added a post here, we also have that very slight delay because
our server is very fast because it's running on our local machine
but I want to show a spinner here. So navigate the user and show a spinner,
these are two things I want to add.
Now navigating the user is super simple, in post create here,
we actually have on save posts and what I essentially want to do is I want to navigate the user
once we're done adding the post or updating the post. So I guess I actually want to do it in the post service
right, here when we get back
the success response,
this is where we want to navigate away and we also want to navigate away here in add post. So let's add
something, let's inject something into posts service which helps with navigation and that's the angular
router because we can not just change pages by adding links like new post,
we can also do that programmatically. For that
I'll inject
my router
which is of type router and which is imported from @angular/router, so make sure to add this import here
at the top and then you can use that router in that service file.
Now how do we use it?
Let's use it here in add post, once we're done subscribing, here
at the very end I can reach out to my router and call the navigate method and there, we actually have
to pass in an array of segments just as we did it for router link
when we actually want to pass more than a normal string, here we always have to do it and the first segment
in this case,
well it will just be slash,
I always want to go back to the root route and I'll not just do that here in add post but also in update
post. By the way,
we are replicating code here and here,
I will leave it like this for now to make this really explicit,
you could of course refactor this into a method you are calling in both places.
So now we're navigating when we're adding or updating a post.
We also want to have a spinner or
I want to have it so I guess you will also want to have it in this course.
Let's check the material docs, the angular material docs really quick,
there under components,
we conveniently find a spinner, here progress spinner and that looks pretty good,
I want to have that spinner.
It's the mat progress spinner component though we can actually use just mat spinner
if we want to have an infinite spinner, so not a spinner going from 0 to 100
but a spinner which spins, well as long as it needs to spin. To use that, we need to unlock it
so time to revisit our app module and here let's add a new material component or module,
mat spinner, excuse me, progress spinner module. Mat progress spinner module needs to be added to imports
and that of course means we also need to add an import to it from the @angular/material package at
the top of the file.
Now we can use that in our post create component when we are loading the post for example,
so here in ngOnInit
when we are fetching a post, we want to show it when we start fetching,
so here and we want to hide it once we got the result,
so here, even though these lines are next to each other,
this code here in subscribe will execute asynchronously, so only once the response is there. Now to show
that spinner here, let's add a new property
isLoading which is false initially let's say. Here when we start loading,
we can set isLoading to true and then here when we are done, I'll set it back to false. We can now use is
loading to actually hide that entire form here and show a spinner instead
as long as we are loading. We can do that by adding mat spinner here at the top and then we can use ngIf
to only show that if isLoading is true. On the other hand, the form is only added if, ngIf isLoading
is false,
so if not isLoading with that exclamation mark at the beginning. If we now save that and I go back to my
application, let's try that out by going back to messages and editing this and you saw that it wasn't
that long but there was that spinner. Now it wasn't centered or anything like that,
we could of course add that styling, we could make sure it's centered for example by going to our css
file, target
mat spinner and give it a margin of auto,
this should center it,
yeah,
well it's really hard to see because it's so fast but here it is
and it would also be nice to show a spinner whilst we are well saving the post. Even though that's fast,
it takes a brief second until this is updated, so we probably want to show the spinner there too
and all we have to do to do that is control isLoading in our post create component.
So in on save
post, whenever we are creating the post here,
I want to start loading,
so this isLoading is set to true.
Now I dont need to reset it to false because we will navigate away from this page anyways and if we come
back to it, well then isLoading will be set back to false
so this should be fine.
Now if I load that page, I see a spinner and if I hit save, I also see one until I'm done and we go back.
Now I want to add a spinner to that message list page here,
so to the post list page. We can do that in exactly the same way of course, we can add mat spinner here
above our accordion,
there we got mat spinner and I already will center it here,
so target the
mat spinner selector and add a margin of auto to center it
but now of course we need that isLoading property here too
and how do we add this? Well let's add isLoading and set it to false and then in ngOnInit, we essentially
want to set isLoading back to false or first of all we'll set it to true at the very beginning before
we call get posts, there we will set isLoading to true
but as soon as we get updated posts here, I'll set isLoading back to false because then we definitely
have posts and we're done. And now with that, we of course want to use isLoading together with ngIf
again, so let's add ngIf isLoading to the spinner and to the accordion, we'll add the opposite
ngIf not isLoading.
Now if we save that, let it reload, we got an error, can't have multiple template bindings on one element.
Oh yeah we already got ngIf on the accordion of course,
that will not work,
so we only want to show the accordion if we got enough posts and if we're not loading, so and if it's not
loading and the same for the paragraph by the way. We can show that we have no posts yet but we only
want to show it if we're not loading,
if we are loading, we want to show neither the accordion nor the paragraph.
So now if we go back,
you saw that spinner,
you have to watch really good
but now there is that spinner,
it's super fast but you can see it for the fraction of a second.
So now the spinner is added,
now our frontend is looking good like that.
Let's move on
and in the next lecture, let's add an image upload and of course an image to the post thereafter.